[TITLE]
Free Online JWT Decoder
[H1]
Free JWT Decoder Online
[DESCRIPTION]
Decode JWT tokens and inspect header, payload, and signature instantly in your browser.
[SEO_TITLE]
Free JWT Decoder Online - Decode JWT Tokens Instantly
[SEO_DESCRIPTION]
Decode JWT tokens instantly in your browser. Inspect header, payload, and signature without sending data to any server.
[INTRO]
JSON Web Tokens (JWT) are a popular method for securely transmitting information between parties as JSON objects. They are widely used in modern authentication systems, particularly for single-page applications and microservices architectures. Understanding the structure of JWT tokens is essential for developers debugging authentication flows, inspecting claims, or troubleshooting token-related issues.

This free online JWT decoder allows you to inspect JWT tokens without any server interaction. Paste a JWT token and instantly see its three parts: the header, the payload (containing the claims), and the signature. The tool runs entirely in your browser, so your tokens never leave your device.

JWTs are commonly used for user authentication, API authorization, and information exchange. They consist of three Base64URL-encoded parts separated by dots: the header (algorithm and token type), the payload (claims), and the signature (verification). This modular structure makes JWTs efficient and scalable for distributed systems.
[HOW_TO_USE]
Paste your JWT token
Copy a JWT token from your application, browser storage, or API response. The token should be a string of three Base64URL-encoded parts separated by dots.
---
View the decoded sections
The tool immediately decodes and displays the header (typically showing the algorithm), the payload (containing user information, expiration, and custom claims), and the signature section.
---
Inspect claims and timestamps
Review the decoded payload to check user ID, roles, permissions, expiration time, and any custom claims. Note that the signature cannot be verified without the secret key.
[EXAMPLES]
eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzdWIiOiIxMjM0NTY3ODkwIiwibmFtZSI6IkpvaG4gRG9lIiwiaWF0IjoxNTE2MjM5MDIyfQ.SflKxwRJSMeKKF2QT4fwpMeJf36POk6yJV_adQssw5c
===
Header:
{
  "alg": "HS256",
  "typ": "JWT"
}
Payload:
{
  "sub": "1234567890",
  "name": "John Doe",
  "iat": 1516239022
}
[FAQ]
What is a JWT token?
A JSON Web Token (JWT) is a compact, URL-safe means of representing claims to be transferred between two parties. It consists of three parts: a header, a payload, and a signature, encoded in Base64URL format.

What does JWT Decoder do?
It decodes JWT tokens by splitting the three Base64URL-encoded parts and displaying them in human-readable JSON format. It shows the algorithm, token type, claims, and timestamps.

What is the difference between decode and verify?
Decoding shows the contents of the token without checking if it is valid. Verification uses a secret key to confirm the token has not been tampered with. This tool only decodes; it cannot verify signatures without your secret.

Is my JWT token sent to your server?
No. All decoding happens locally in your browser. Your JWT token is processed entirely on your device and never transmitted anywhere.

What does the header contain?
The header typically contains two parts: the algorithm used for signing (like HS256 or RS256) and the type of token (usually JWT).

What information is in the payload?
The payload contains the claims, which are statements about an entity (typically a user) and additional metadata. Common claims include sub (subject/user ID), exp (expiration time), iat (issued at), name, and custom application-specific claims.

How do I read the expiration time?
JWT timestamps are typically in Unix epoch format (seconds since January 1, 1970). You can use our timestamp converter tool to translate these into human-readable dates.

Can I modify the token with this tool?
This tool is read-only for viewing purposes. Modifying a token will invalidate its signature, making it unusable for authentication.
[RELATED_TOOLS]
base64
json-formatter
json-validator
[CATEGORY]
developer
[KEYWORDS]
jwt decoder
decode jwt
jwt parser
jwt viewer
json web token decoder
jwt inspector
