[TITLE]
Free Online Timestamp Converter
[H1]
Free Timestamp Converter Online
[DESCRIPTION]
Convert Unix timestamps to human-readable dates and vice versa. Supports multiple timezones.
[SEO_TITLE]
Free Timestamp Converter Online - Unix Time Converter
[SEO_DESCRIPTION]
Convert Unix timestamps to dates and dates to timestamps instantly. Supports multiple timezones and formats. No data upload.
[INTRO]
Unix timestamps (also known as Unix time or POSIX time) represent the number of seconds that have elapsed since January 1, 1970 (midnight UTC). They are widely used in computer systems, databases, APIs, and programming languages because they provide a simple, unambiguous way to represent dates and times that is easy to store and compare.

This free online timestamp converter helps you convert between Unix timestamps and human-readable dates instantly. Whether you need to decode JWT expiration times, debug API responses, or convert database timestamps, this tool makes it easy.

The converter supports both seconds and milliseconds precision, common date formats, and multiple timezone conversions. All conversions happen locally in your browser with no data sent to servers.
[HOW_TO_USE]
Enter a timestamp or date
Choose input mode and enter either a Unix timestamp (in seconds or milliseconds) or a human-readable date. The tool detects the format automatically.
---
Select timezone
Choose the source and target timezone for your conversion. The tool supports UTC and common local timezones.
---
Copy the result
View the converted result and copy it to your clipboard with one click.
[EXAMPLES]
1704067200
===
2024-01-01 00:00:00 UTC
[FAQ]
What is a Unix timestamp?
A Unix timestamp is the number of seconds that have elapsed since January 1, 1970 00:00:00 UTC (Coordinated Universal Time). It is a way to represent dates and times as a single integer that is easy for computers to store and compare.

How do I convert Unix timestamp to date?
Enter the Unix timestamp in the input field. The tool will display the corresponding human-readable date and time. For timestamps in milliseconds, the tool automatically detects and converts them.

How do I convert date to Unix timestamp?
Select the date input mode and enter a date and time. The tool will calculate and display the corresponding Unix timestamp in both seconds and milliseconds.

What is the difference between seconds and milliseconds?
Unix timestamps are typically stored in seconds (10 digits) or milliseconds (13 digits). JavaScript uses milliseconds, while many APIs and databases use seconds. The tool supports both formats.

Can I use this for JWT expiration times?
Yes. JWT tokens often include expiration times (exp claim) as Unix timestamps. You can decode them here. Note that JWT timestamps are usually in seconds, not milliseconds.

How do I handle timezones?
The tool displays results in both UTC and your local timezone. You can also specify a target timezone for conversions.

Is my data uploaded?
No. All conversions happen locally in your browser. Timestamps are processed on your device and never sent to any server.

What timestamps does the tool support?
The tool supports timestamps from 1970 onwards, including negative timestamps for dates before 1970. Very large timestamps may exceed JavaScript's date handling capabilities.
[RELATED_TOOLS]
cron-generator
uuid-generator
json-formatter
[CATEGORY]
developer
[KEYWORDS]
timestamp converter
unix timestamp converter
epoch converter
epoch to date
date to timestamp
unix time converter
